CORRECTION OF ENGLISH PRESENT SUBJUNTIVE SENTENCE TO SPANISH BY USING GOOGLE MACHINE TRANSLATION

ABSTRACT
For many people, Spanish has been deemed to be the most important language to learn. In the United Kingdom, people view the ability to communicate in Spanish as a huge advantage to access a wide range of countries and cultures; therefore, it is crucial in the business world(1). When looking at the total number of internet users, Spanish is the third most used language on the Web. English is the most used language by Facebook users; however, Spanish is placed in the second position in the ranking of the most used languages.   When comparing the number of users, as with Facebook, on Twitter, Spanish is ranked in the second position after English.  There is a smaller difference in the number of users between English users and Spanish users on Twitter than on Facebook(2). In English, the subjunctive mood has three main tenses which include the present subjunctive, the past subjunctive, and the past perfect subjunctive. The present subjunctive is formed by using the base form of a verb for all persons. It occurs only in noun clauses beginning with that(3). The model to be used will analyze patterns and sentences to produce the right tense and mood for each subordinate clause in a sentence. Currently, there are some English-Spanish translation machine systems but they lack accuracy in translation, especially in the subjunctive mood.  The objective of this project is to 1) Evaluate the precision in the translation from English to Spanish of present subjunctive sentences by using a translation system, Google Translate. 2) Create a computer program written in Java by using existing machine translation technology (Stanford Natural Language Processing API, Google Natural Language API, and Google Translate API) that generates an accurate and high quality translation. The outcome of this project can prove to be useful as preliminary results for future studies.

REFERENCES

1.		Mansfield C. Spanish: speak the language of 400 million people. British Council [Internet]. 2014. Available from: https://www.britishcouncil.org/voices-magazine/spanish-speak-language-400-million-people.
2.		CONSULTING I. Social Media around the World 20122012. Available from: http://www.slideshare.net/InSitesConsulting/social-media-around-the-world-2012-by-insitesconsulting.
3.		Useful English2016. Available from: http://usefulenglish.ru/grammar/present-subjunctive.

